>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're going to pseudo code this out.
We're going to talk about pre-order,
post-order, and
then I'm going to set you free
to work on it on your own.
And then we'll come together,
we'll pseudo-code it out again, and
then we'll go through the solutions.
So first go all the way to the left,
then you wanna do,
what would be the English word for this?
Go all the way to the left,
and then I guess the parent,
then the right, then the parent parent,
something like that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is this making sense?
So we go all the way to the left.
>> Abby: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then the parent is
five, then the right, and
then the parent parent is seven.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is that clear?
Okay, so those are just our notes, okay.
>> Abby: How do you
get all the way back up and to the left?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see,
we're going to explore that right now.
So, who here thinks this is recursive?
I do, awesome, cool.
So we'll just call this traverse,
to make it easier.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're gonna traverse.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What do you think our
base case would be,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For-
>> Abby: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Abby: There aren't any words
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To
the right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Traverse
when you are a leaf, maybe.
Maybe, can explore what that's like.
So a leaf is anything that doesn't
have a child on the left or the right.
So, maybe we'll just stop,
cuz we need a return out of our recursion,
and that's how we're gonna jump
backup levels, is once we return,
that's a spoiler.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
maybe our base case it's
a traverse when you're a leaf.
Does anyone have any other suspicions,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Of when we would stop?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, okay,
we could try that one out.
This is how we figure out a solution,
we come up with a hypothesis, and
then we test it.
We're like computer scientists or
something, I don't know, okay.
So, what would be the next
thing that we do?
So we're like, okay,
we have this hypothesis for a base case.
And then maybe there's something where you
have to break down the problem smaller, so
that it reaches closer to the base case,
it's our thing in recursion that we do.
What would be a way to do that?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
you can break it down by saying this.left.
Then we have this.value, right, which is
the current, then we have this.right.
Those are our main pieces in question, so
ideally, we wanna go left, current, right.
So here we have left, current, right,
that's the order,
recursion's gonna happen.
On which pieces of these
does the recursion happen?
>> Abby: Left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What else?
>> Abby: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, and
then we say when there's like no,
this.left or
this.right, maybe return
that would be like,
or and, that would be our base case.
Obviously there's no when in
JavaScript that's just pseudo code.
What do we think?
Should we try it with some numbers and
see what happens?
Okay, here we go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's the hover.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: My sneaking suspicion
is it would work either way, but sometimes
it's not worth it with JavaScript,
it's too lenient, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There we go, now
can look at our picture at the same time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So our current is
gonna be 11, so this.val
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is 11,
right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so
we're gonna play that game, that
popcorn game where you get to say what
happens next.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You guys remember that
game that we played, where we went through
and we said this is what happens next?
We pretend where the JavaScript engine,
or whatever?
>> Speaker 4: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Get excited about it,
you get to be a JavaScript engine,
just like you always wanted!
Okay, so John, do you wanna go first?
>> John: So
first it's going to check to see
if there's a left or a right,
and since there is, it's going to move on.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
Abbey, you want to go next?
>> Abby: Are we like doing the things, or
do we just?
>> Abby: Or, cuz,
okay.
>> Abby: So it's going, I mean,
it's continuing on in the left one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we're gonna call recursively.
>> Abby: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So what is this.left?
>> Abby: This.left is,
if we're starting at 11?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Abby: this.left is seven.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so, and
maybe I can do this, this is our, remember
that's like where, that's where we stopped
and left off before.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
this.val is what now?
>> Group: Seven.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Andy?
>> Andy: So now it's seven and the left
and right are not null.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Andy: So we traverse the this.left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, and
Miranda you're up.
>> Miranda: So,
now it's 5.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Miranda: And again, we're not null, so
we're going to traverse this.left again.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
we're leaving off here somewhere.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then Jen, what's our current value then?
>> Jen: 3.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then what happens?
>> Jen: That friendly evaluates, yay!
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So it returns, and
then what happens when we return?
>> Jen: Pops off.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Pops off the stack,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we pop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then we come here,
and we continue executing.
>> David: And we have a bug, though,
that if 5 is right, sorry.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're going to
get there, you're so good,
we're going to discover it,
no, no, it's okay.
>> Abby: Are we aggregating anything?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You don't need to,
we're just going to put
exclamation points at the end, but
I think you're onto it too.
You guys went quick, okay, so
we stopped where we left off.
We just returned nothing, right,
so this is undefined, maybe.
And then we go to this.val,
what is this.val in this frame?
>> Abby: Five.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Five,
this is where we wanna put
our exclamation points,
right, probably?
>> Abby: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cuz we did 3, and
then we did 5, so we probably
have some function that does some
transformation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is that clear?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then what happens,
David?
>> David: I think I was distracted.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We just did this.
>> David: We just, okay, so we,
we just returned the 5, so
then we need to-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We just yeah,
we didn't return it.
>> David: Return it, we called, whatever,
all right, we did the five.
So then we need to transverse the right,
which is labeled 6.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so
that means we call function again.
Timbit, what's our value?
>> Timbit: Six
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Six, yep,
then what happens?
>> Timbit: Hit returns,
that would be true?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
returns.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: John, what does
it mean when you return?
>> John: You pop
it off.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Pop
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And Abby,
what do you think happens after this?
So we just popped this off
>> Abby: You popped off 6?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so we called
this and we popped it off.
>> Abby: So, it's supposed
to go back up to 7 after that, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mh-hm, but
what is actually happening?
Now, why is it supposed to happen?
Once you reach the end of a function,
do you know what happens automatically?
>> Abby: It returns
undefined.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mh-hm, so what happens
when you return from a function?
>> Abby: It pops off
the stack.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
pops off the stack.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
then we'll continue
from where we left off.
Andy?
>> Andy: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What happens next?
>> Andy: We'll do our function
on this.value, which is 7?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, and
we'll give it some exclamation points.
And then Miranda, what happens next?
>> Miranda: You go right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, we go right, and
you can imagine this is gonna
keep drilling down, right?
So let's just keep going.